.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Something isn't working as expected
title: ''
labels: bug
assignees: ''

---

<!---
These issue templates took inspiration from:
* The RPCS3 repository: https://github.com/RPCS3/rpcs3/tree/2f44523e6d5a674dc1fd12e248e93d4e66fd830c/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE
* stevemao's issue templates repository: https://github.com/stevemao/github-issue-templates/tree/ef1cc891865bab16cfe6e795b178caa422224344/
* auremoser's issue template gist: https://gist.github.com/auremoser/72803ba969d0e61ff070
* The default issue template automatically created by github, when opening the issue template editor.
-->


## Prerequisites
Please make sure to check off these prerequisites before submitting a bug report.
- [ ] Test that the bug appears on a recent version of the dev-branch.
- [ ] Check that the issue hasn't already been reported, by checking the currently open issues.
- [ ] If there are steps to reproduce the problem, make sure to write them down below.

## Quick summary
Please give a brief and concise description of the bug.

## Details
Please add to the following sections to describe the bug as accurately as possible.

### Steps to Reproduce
Add what needs to be done to reproduce the bug. Add code examples where useful and make sure that the issue appears on the dev-branch.

1. Clone the FINN repository
2. Checkout the dev branch
3. Start the docker container with the command [...]
4. [Further steps ...]

### Expected behavior
Please add a brief description of what you expected to happen.

### Actual behavior
Describe what actually happens instead.

## Optional

### Possible fix
If you already know where the issue stems from, or you have a hint please let us know.

### Additional context
Add any other context about the problem here.

Commit message:

Updated Issue templates to include feedback

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Something isn't working as expected
title: ''
labels: bug
assignees: ''

---


## Prerequisites
Please make sure to check off these prerequisites before submitting a bug report.
- [ ] Test that the bug appears on the current version of the dev-branch. Make sure to include the commit hash of the commit you checked out.
- [ ] Check that the issue hasn't already been reported, by checking the currently open issues.
- [ ] If there are steps to reproduce the problem, make sure to write them down below.
- [ ] Please include the ONNX files, which were created directly before or after the bug appeared.

## Quick summary
Please give a brief and concise description of the bug.

## Details
Please add to the following sections to describe the bug as accurately as possible.

### Steps to Reproduce
Add what needs to be done to reproduce the bug. Add code examples where useful
and make sure to include the resulting ONNX files, and the commit hash you are working on.

1. Clone the FINN repository
2. Checkout the dev branch, with commit hash: [...]
3. Start the docker container with the command: [...]
4. Run transformation [...] on ONNX file [...] or run the dataflow builder with the following settings: [...]
5. [Further steps ...]

### Expected behavior
Please add a brief description of what you expected to happen.

### Actual behavior
Describe what actually happens instead.

## Optional

### Possible fix
If you already know where the issue stems from, or you have a hint please let us know.

### Additional context
Add any other context about the problem here.
